Oh, wait. It's
because that Okay, I forgot about
that. You need this actual state, don't
you? Where is it?
it? Oh, maybe not. We're just using this
to give consistent
this got 3D
instead. You do not need numb layers
anymore.
So, it's not enough values to unpack.
[Music]
this state and
then hidden comma
agent. What do I do in Ebal?
Oh, that's crazy obnoxious.
one. We'll just do this
one cuz otherwise it's like it's just
too much.
And we need to
do this can be none for now. Well, no,
it can't be because I'll get a a shape
error, won't I?
skills. implementing DA.
Yeah, I it's kind of funny because so
far none of these algorithms actually
work, which is like
telling. I mean, but what a massive
waste of time that is, right?
I
like so E3B whether E3B should work or
not depends on whether the math that
they have actually makes any sense right
um whether it's actually an
approximation to counts or not and
then because counts works for some M but
it's also slow it has bad complexity
uh this thing it seems like they should
work and there like I'm a little bit
more optimistic about it, but it's more
obnoxious. It's not just a reward
modification. It's like obnoxious to
have to deal with
That group sometimes throws unnecessary
math on top of methods that do work.
Well, really don't need. Yeah,
exactly. I mean, that's a lot of people
in
RL. I mean, this is why I literally I
consider the majority of research even
from the top labs just to be wrong. The
majority of publications are just wrong.
Full
stop. But uh we do have the author of
E3B, one of the authors in the puffer
discord with some suggestions.
Um the the justification for the counts
based uh the math in this case though
was that um it's countsbased
approximation
uh without actually having to do
explicit counts. So you can do it way
more easily over stuff that's not just
like a grid. So it works in continuous
space. It works over like you know
skills and actions and market usage. All
the other stuff that you'd have in a
fancy end of
args agent quarks and
bars. Oh, you don't have it. Lovely.
Some stuff to eat.
Somehow they're doing research on net
hack at
Meta. That's
funny. Like RL or are they just using it
for LLM slop?
Okay. So, here's with this
off the policy very
jeez. That would be one of your top
teams really.
I mean, it's
like I guess if they're willing to throw
enough compute at it,
maybe. That approach just seems wrong to
me,
though. Unless they're doing like a fast
slow model thing, like just end to end
LLM on like a net hack seems like a
really dumb idea.
industry scale
end. I mean the correct method I think
is what some of the robotics companies
have started doing now. I've always said
this as well. It's that you have a big
model you query once in a while. LM's
design intrinsic rewards. Oh jeez. Okay.
Yeah, I don't think that works either.
hack. When you say design intrinsic
rewards, I don't think it's intrinsic
rewards. It's designing like just game.
It's like the LLM does the reward
engineering, right?
a Well, but the thing is like if it work
if that works that's going to work just
because there are no actually serious
baselines for net hack, right?
like if you actually bother really
trying to like get the rewards right and
you could actually run the
ablations. I think the thing that's way
more likely to actually work is um like
a sort of like fast flow model thing
where you just have a
low-level RL controller and then they
have a high level thing you can furry
once in a while.
LM scores states based on a given
task. LM scores states. Does it score
every state?
states to make you preference data
set RL scale not LLM scale.
And then
pure. Well, net hack is just like a
really annoying end because it's like
it's fast in theory, but it's not
actually fast.
Yeah. No, you do need you need an LLM
for like specific highle pieces of
information not learnable. Tabularas, I
agree. Um, Net Hack is like a really
obnoxious M though for RL because like
on paper, right, it's like, oh, it's
super fast. It should be great for RL,
but it's not actually super fast because
there are limitations of how you can run
it parallel and whatnot.
least faster. No, it isn't. That's the
problem. No, it isn't.
Like even procgen is
obs. It's actually incredibly slow
without my vectorzation as
well. Without a fancy learning library.
No, even with it. So with a fancy
learning library, I can bring it up to
like
this this is old benchmarks, right?
like it runs like 7K on Gymnasium or
SP3 single core even and then same speed
multipprocessed. You get up to 18K
single core with puffer or where is it?
No, that's on a laptop. So, you get like
3x faster, mind you, with puffer, and
then you get up to 96k on a decent
machine. But like, oh, and mini hacks
even slower
somehow.
Um, procgen, I think I got to 30k or
something and then 150k with pooling.
Net hack doesn't benefit from
pooling. No, it's slower than
procgen. So, this would be the this is
the best metric here. you you'd compare
best. Um, so it's like substantially
slower than procgen
uh and mini grid and uh it is a bit
faster than like Atari for instance. I
think I got this number up a little
higher but it is a bit faster than Atari
but then also what ends up happening is
as soon as you train on it you lose all
that PF because of the way the uh the
observation space is. So what you'd have
to do is you'd have to take like the
image wrapper version of
it actually make that fast and then
you'd have to feed that into a more
standard net
architecture. It's not like easy to make
that fast out of the box at all.
The other issue is it just doesn't scale
very well because okay look this 96
looks this 96k looks very good on paper
right but the thing is um it doesn't
scale to larger batches very well.
So like when you would want to have a
larger batch size, uh it doesn't scale
that well with Net Hack because you need
separate
problem. Complexity for SPSN out
there.
Um, it would be a good end if there were
actually some engineering put in to
prevent you from losing all that speed
as soon as you try to use it in an RL
context because like the base game is
really fast, but you lose all the perf
going to an RL
context, if that makes sense,
right? And it doesn't matter if it's
like the best at like SPS per
complexity. It's too slow to be usable
is the
problem. It's really too slow to be
usable. It's very close. Like there's I
think with a bit of engineering it could
be very very good but at the moment it's
too slow to be
usable. Okay. What was this? This is
39. And yeah, it's like okay, it's
faster than
um the
heck it's faster than what came before
it. But the thing is the majority of
research is of like RL research is just
hard trolling. So like that bar is so
low you have to dig for
research. There aren't any similarly
complex and that absolute. That doesn't
make it complex though. That just makes
it not learnable.
tabularasa, right? I can just say, "Hey,
read this text and give you like a pixel
rendered image of text and that's not
going to be learnable tabularasa
either. So that just makes it like not
self-contained, right?
If I renamed like Medusa to something
else, right, you'd be
screwed. Action is it's not that it's
like the thing is it look if you already
know how to solve a problem before
you've done it like it's not a good
problem as a learning benchmark. Um it
like you this is not to it to the
credit, right? This is not a credit.
Like if we replace Medusa with like some
other like just random string or
whatever, like you're not going to know
to wrap a towel around your head or use
a mirror or whatever,
right? It's a very very rich sim, but I
don't give it I don't think it's like
because it needs an LLM it's complex or
whatever or like the reasoning is hard.
Um, well, no. The the point here
is it's not arbitrary scrambled grid
worlds,
I don't know there are a lot of
industrial processes where the real
world knowledge is very obscure and like
yeah you can bring an LLM into it for
sure but
like you're kind of muddying the problem
in a bit because you're massively
increasing the compute requirements
without making any fundamental
advancements to RL
itself. I mean still if you solve the
game that'll still be a massive massive
breakthrough right because I don't think
the game is sol solvable tabularasa
um but I don't think I still don't think
it's going to solve the game for quite a
I mean, I could be wrong because like
the Pokemon result Netak is much harder
than Pokemon, but that just worked with
like a little bit of scripting to be
fair. A fair bit of scripting.
But the thing is, you're missing the
point here. I don't care if it's a class
of problems that Tablerasa can't reach
because the LLM side of research is
going to happen anyways,
right? Like there are thousands of
people fiddling with LS with LLMs. Like
that's going to happen regardless. The
side of progress in science that's not
guaranteed is the RL side because
nobody's doing it.
So, if we're looking for like potential
bottlenecks, like, hey, where could AI
get stalled for the next 10 years? It's
because nobody's done
better. One of three labs. That's fair.
Yeah, that is fair.
Um, I think that what is going to happen
is the like let's run RL on an LLM will
happen. Yeah, that's
fair. Yeah, I mean that's like a decent
problem space
then. I still I still think that like
the major issue at the moment is the RL
side's really screwed,
right? Like I think that the amount of
LLM specific stuff required is very very
small and the amount of RL stuff
required is very
large. Trying to find it's just cuz it's
expensive. It'll
happen. It's just because it'll happen.
Yeah, but the thing is right if you
agree with that and it's like legit
because there's nowhere in industry
doing just pure RL
um but my vision right is how do I make
sure that the field of AI doesn't get
stuck because like people just didn't
bother uh actually pursuing this
incredibly promising branch of science
right that's what's happening with RL
right now is that just like why is it
that I can make all these crazy things
happen in Puffer in less than a Right?
I'm one guy. I don't have like I don't
have a massive team behind this. I have
a few open source contributors. Um I
haven't been writing C for 10 years. I
haven't been doing any of these things.
It's just nobody tried. Like nobody
actually tried. And you say, "Oh, well
there was a lot of RL publication."
Yeah, but it was hard trolling.
Like if you're training at a like at 900
steps per second half the time and you
don't run run any ablations and like you
don't try obvious variations of standard
methods, right? And you do publish fancy
algorithms that don't transfer to any
other M other than the ones you tune
them for, you're just hard
trolling. So that that's kind of what
the field's done for the last decade.
work. I mean, it's not just slop. It's
just like completely invalid science. So
like if we rewind if we rewind the field
to like you know roughly when Dota
happened and if you assume that there's
been like no serious progress maybe a
little bit but mostly no serious
progress in RL since
then and you see like the curve of like
how quickly RL progress was being made
until the stack got too deep and stuff
got too
slow. It's like insane to have dropped
right to drop all scientific effort in
this area. And that's what's
happened. So that's why like I'm like so
so like laser focused on just pure RL.
It's not cuz I think it'll solve
everything on its own, right? I think
it'll solve a lot of industry problems
which are really like not super human
readable. you know, manufacturing
optimization problems, uh, stuff in
games, you know, maybe stuff in
animation, just like tons of random
things all over the place. Tabularasa RL
will do, you know, it'll do enough to
make a viable business and to improve a
whole bunch of areas, right? But then in
general, I think it's this really
important thing long term and it ain't
going to happen if I don't do it.
this. And this is a casual 2 million
step per second run, not even fully
optimized. Keep beating my head against
exploration. Filtering down search.
Well, the first problem to address here,
right, is that exploration is a
fundamentally horrible and broken area
of RL that has never been defined
properly. And we need to stop testing
that on like very human uh very human
intuition coded
problems. I actually like this diversity
is all you need
method. I like the idea of training
policies to do recognizably different
things.
That seems like something very natural.
Uh, by the way, you could very very
easily do diversity is all you need. Uh,
but with LLMs if you wanted to, right?
Just instead of training a
discriminator, you would just ask an
LLM, are these things doing something
different? I'm sure that there's work on
that. Isn't that like omniasonent or
whatever? Yeah, there's work on that.
But, um, this poor sort of method seems
interesting. All exploration exploration
bonus work was tested on Yeah, but it
was all stupid as well. Like if you just
like think through the method, right?
It's like random network latent space
stuff that makes no sense. That's just
like you getting lucky that like some
very very base con features kind of
generalize. So that doesn't make any
sense. And then there's countbased stuff
which is like okay that's really
limiting. The E3B stuff is kind of cool
but still counts is not amazing. Like
you don't want to be counting states.
That's not a format of exploration. Some
of the curiosity stuff kind of makes
sense but the whole world model uh field
was a mess and never got tied together
correctly. And then maybe some of the
diversity stuff is kind of okay even
though it didn't really fully work
right. R&D. No it's not.
gets
marked. Where is
it? R&D gets
I thought this was Wait, I thought this
was
multiple. Maybe I'm being stupid. Is
this one? Is this one? I thought this
was
more. This is Mario. And then you have
uh here's Mini Grid. Here are a whole
bunch of other mini grid M's.
I may have reviewed it. That's
funny. But they have a bunch of them
here, don't
they? Here's Progen
Maze actually. Does R&D do better here?
No, it's two and two. Three individual
M's as
sketch. Not all of
Yeah, I still think it's a stupid method
longer term. Um because again like on
the pixel MS you're just exploiting
uh you're just exploiting like comms
recognizing similar
pixels. I think the research is
basically invalid for all the reasons
you
hate. Do we think it's invalid to the
point that R&D is actually better
though? I mean, I guess I'm biased here
because the results are directionally in
the favor of the thing that I think
would be likely to happen.
Um, I don't like all the like random
latent stuff that doesn't seem like a
good direction of research in
exploration to me.
intuitive methods more. Well, it makes
sense that counts works and it counts
consistently does work. Like if you
actually just use straight counts, count
just
works. One polic to be at multiple
levels. You can do
that. Here's another paper. Let me see
this one.
bonusbased. Yeah. No, you're right. The
the uh the counts methods work on grids.
They work on grids,
R&D doesn't work on Montazuma's Revenge
either though,
right? Well, yeah. That's why I don't
think that the bonusbased methods are a
good direction either,
right? I thought R&D doesn't do very
well on Montazuma's Revenge either,
right? Am I wrong there? I guess I could
see it doing kind of okay because it's
kind of it's like sort of the ideal test
case for it, right? It's like exploiting
pixelbas. I kind of like the diversity
is all you need stuff. Um, and I'm kind
of interested
in like not roll out and latent space,
but possibly like next date prediction
like world model style stuff.
The other def. So diversity like
interpretable diversity is one flavor of
exploration that makes sense to me. The
other is like in the absence of progress
act so as to uh minimize your
uncertainty is the other form that I
skill. No idea.
Well, we'll have to see whether this
paper actually works or
not. So, I like the idea of uh training
interpretably different policies, right?
Uh if you can do it without splitting
data across multiple different sets of
weights, which this method does do, but
the question is does it actually do it?
Well, so far I haven't been able to get
it to work.
Yeah, but something's weird here because
it pushes the the discriminator losses
like zero
instantly. E3B stuff working.
Nope. I've tried E3B a ton of different
ways and it doesn't
work. At least not consistently.
Yeah, let's
say. Yeah. So, here are all these
different runs and they all
collapse. Yeah, these runs all
collapse. This is the exact domain it
should be good on as well.
Nothing
works. Well, none of the existing very
poorly conducted RL research works.
Buffer stuff's been going pretty
well. We got Breakout down to like 90
second solves. And that's our version of
Breakout, which is fast but doesn't have
frame
skip. So, not
bad. And obviously, we're not just
trying to do breakout forever, right? We
have other ends. But, um, it's a nice
like hyper prim tuning
benchmark. Bat and pong.
too hard. Well, I mean I'm doing
algorithm dev actively,
right? Do
something. I don't know if it's we
obviously need to do something. Well,
the field in general isn't doing
anything, right? The field isn't in
general isn't doing anything.
Um, the other thing that's that's like
clear to me is that the algorithm should
be able to learn to
explore. And like it shouldn't be you
must learn to explore. Like it seems to
me like a good learning algorithm should
learn to explore if that is a good way
to maximize reward.
exploration. I need to look at it more.
Do you mind has so much freaking math
and everything?
lost.
Entropy loss.
I don't know how this loss is like zero
instantly. That seems like that's a
problem.
future work section thinking about
curriculum learning in
LMS.
Sure. Well, it's not so much that I hate
it as much as it's
like it seems lazy to me to be like,
"Ah, well, we need LLMs to solve
everything now." Like literally the
difference between RL and uh language
model land is just billions of dollars
of
investment of people like actually
trying to solve
stuff like the fact that I like I
shouldn't be able to make progress as
quickly as I have made progress in
puffer lib right if the field were
actually trying one guy sitting here
should not be able to be like 100xing
speed on a lot of stuff overnight
Yeah, I mean it is incredibly lazy and a
lot of the new researchers that have
gotten into, you know, LLM style
research are literally just writing for
loops over
LLMs,
right? It's incredibly lazy.
engineering. I mean, I try to be more
than three people worth of engineering,
but that's just like I mean, that's just
skill issue, right? It's like you put
more time in, you get better. I got I'm
way way way better than I was a year
ago. Three good
people. I mean, I don't know. I worked
like two people's worth of hours
probably. But I also have a bunch of
other stuff on my plate, right? I'm
trying to build a company. I'm trying to
organize stuff around Puffer.
the but here's the crazy thing about
that as well, right? Like if you look at
the code I'm actually
writing a first year undergrad can like
read and understand the neural MMO3
code, right? It's if statements and for
loops in C. That's it.
So like I'm not even doing some like
crazy advanced fancy thing that you need
20 years of industry experience to do,
right?
That's on them, right? That skill issue.
That's like if you're not willing to
learn the thing that you need to learn
in order to solve the problem, you don't
actually care about solving the problem.
You don't need a big team. Like look how
quickly these things get built. It's one
file in
C. I think the a very big problem in
academia is people don't actually want
to solve the RL problems. They want to
do science, right? And like sometimes
the way to solve the problem isn't to do
science, it's to do engineering. But
it's like if you care more about doing
science than solving the problem, you're
not going to solve the problem because
you're going to trip and fall and break
your shins as soon as you hit an
engineering
roadblock. Knocking all awesome new
feature. Yeah, you can do that. Heck,
you can do that in C as well. It's still
fast.
I still don't know why this doesn't
work, but I think it has something to do
with this
gloss. Got to finish thesis. Yeah, best
of luck. I spent like three days on my
thesis. I do not spend suggest spending
much longer.
Yeah. All right, let's see if we can
actually fix this algorithm. Um, this is
diversity is all you need. Um,
exploration
method. It works by encouraging the
policy to condition. It conditions the
policy on a random vector and it convin
and it tries to make it learn
interpretably different policies.
Background's killing me. Don't want to
write something. You don't need to look
at my thesis. It's online. It's you
don't need that much background at all.
You don't you don't need to write
something in
bard. All right.
And the loss for determining diversity
is all you need here. It tries to
predict
where it tries to predict what behavior
you were trying to learn, I think, which
is right. Where's the
loss? Yeah. Okay. It's right
here. D I A Y discriminator of hidden.
And then hidden comes from
here. Let's t hidden.
See which is uh as it comes out of the
policy it's that
vector. It's very very weird to me that
this is easy to learn. So easy that it's
like learned instantly.
Brad. Maybe it need to stop, Brad. Hang
on. Let me think about
that.
this?
Ah, that's something.
sure. I wonder if how they did it in the
original, but this would make sense to
me.
Oh, wait. But you can't do this, right?
Because the whole point of it is
to I don't think you can actually do it
this way. The whole point is to change
the
policy to produce more interpretable
action outputs.
But that does mess up the uh the loss
here. So it is the fact that you can
differentiate through it
fully that makes a
difference. I mean
it's you should really be looking at the
action, shouldn't
You see that instantly optimizes right
there. Instantly.
kind of surprised the original method
apparently works.
Hang on. This is ST +
1 with just
compute
Q Z given S t + one.
Get distribution
for obs reuse is
true. I forgot what a mass tensorflow
was.
Just trying to see if they did anything
in this code that's not like clear from
the paper, but it's TensorFlow, which is
annoying as hell to read.
Interesting. Okay. Okay, so this is
where you make
your observation augmentation here for
this new one hot that you add on for the
skill
Max. See how I did it
here? It's the
same.
Oh, log
evaluate. Okay. So all the logic for
this algorithm has to
mean. Yeah. So this is mean of cross
entropy of the output of this
discriminator and then the one
augmentation
vector
right that's
fine so then what are the remaining
questions
here discriminator get
outperform I guess the fact that The
network isn't
shared. Oh, wait. How does that make
sense? Hang
on. How does that make
sense? So, your
goal Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait a
second. Your
goal is to adjust the input policy
network to
be
discernable. And what's actions PL?
Oh, hang on. I might have it. I think I
have an idea what they did.
This is a
placeholder. Where's this get
filled? Critic
update. Get output for actions.
props? DA I assume is the dimension of
the action
space. Get output
for Q function. Get output for
action.pl.
So you directly have to optimize from
action space I guess the action props.
Let me try
that. Let me let me try that.
So I think that what you do
is instead of returning hidden
here we do decode
actions. You just return actions don't
you? This becomes
actions. Now these are
probabilities and then this discrete
encoder
is
self.num
actions to
32. Oops. Hang on. Wrong
one. It's uh where is
it? Oops. Totally wrong network. It's
this one that you have to
modify. This is
actions. They're hidden,
right? Or do you need
state? No, you don't need state. You
just need
uh
actions where you collect
Okay, we run
this cannot be
This is still 128 dem
somehow the snake
policy. Oh yeah, I forgot about this
tactic sound. Somebody should finish
that. Just intermediate.
screwy
action. This returns action and
value.
Okay,
this return action
value
action. Didn't
see it's a little awkward.
That works there and then it doesn't
work later
up
because where does hidden come from
here or train? Okay.
Ah, you did it
here. Yeah. Okay.
Value action value.
Action
state. Oh, wait. Action.
action. Messy bad code. But this is just
all prototyping.
I mean, there's a little bit of
lost, tiny
Yeah. I wonder how it is able to uh to
do that.
See? Do we see any noticeable
differences?
Yeah. Some of these going to the left
and some of these going to the
right, which is
I still see some going to the left, some
going to the right. This looks very
similar.
These ones are going down and to the
right, aren't
they? Is it just me? Now, these ones are
definitely going Hold
on. This is
something. These ones are going down and
to the right.
up. Okay, the algorithm
works. The algorithm
works. That's kind of cool.
There's definitely conditioning on the
policy.
cool. So, uh I guess we got to now run
some sweeps on this,
right? And then is it
score? We have score on this.
Okay. And now we need to
do
I think I added these to
default. No. Yeah, I did.
Okay. Yeah. So, it's got to be a min of
two loss
coefficient form and then log normal on
this
coefficient. Log
normal. Here we go.
And this should work.
Very
nice. Let's go get our other box booted
up and let's see if we run some
experiments on
this. Let me just send over a quick mo
message as well to the person who asked
for this.
What's the best way to
log special events?
Let's go log into the new machine. The
other
credentials. This is kind of cool that
this actually does work
already. Makes sense. It's odd that the
loss was so
uh Oh, I guess it went back up at the
end, didn't it?
Oh, no it didn't.
Okay. Key
[Music]
mean something silly. I don't think so.
log normal
uniform uniform power
hell key error mean. So it says it
doesn't have a
mean.
Oh, I
one skills auto. What's this? Reward
food. Reward death. That's it, right?
Reward
corpse. Sweep this reward.
There we
go. That's fine.
Oh, and did you do M& Num M's? I don't
think I
Let's do
one to
So, we pull this and hopefully now we
can set up our sweep.
Well, we'll see how that goes. It's uh
it's not going to take long cuz it's
training at 2 million steps per
second. So, uh that's pretty well set.
Um,
cool. That's most of what I wanted to do
today. It's kind of cool that I it
actually worked that quickly, that it
does at least
something. And this is one of the ones
where I think there is actually a
genuine possibility to uh improve perf
using
this. I don't like that it adds more
hypers and more complexity, but we'll
see. Maybe it's worth
it. I'm trying to think if there's
anything else I want to do right
now. Not
really. Let me see if there's anything
to answer and then I because I have a
couple quick calls to make as well.
Double check my experiments real quick.
These are running. This
one doesn't work at all.
Unfortunate real quick. Can you explain?
Yeah, I can do that. Oh, how solid. This
is already doing stuff. Lovely.
now. So this is the grid shader right
here,
right? It just loops
through. It has to hard-coded four bots,
right? You get the position of four bots
and the color of four bots. So, it
looped through. It checks how far um in
world space, so not in pixel space. This
is the coordinate in world space of
where the current pixel
is. It checks the distance to the
current bot. And then it scales the
magnitude of the color based on that
distance.
So just 9 / distance squared. So that's
going to be one uh when you're 3 units
away and then it drops off from
there. This is the main bit of it right
here. Very
short. And then it's just defined
in know your types. And then it gets
initialized
[Music]
in How did you get it to only affect the
small grid though? Oh yeah, that's
easy. You literally have to begin shader
mode. So when I draw the small
grid, begin shader
mode. Shader only affects stuff inside
of the shader. Begin shader and shader
draw calls.
else? Bloom is a little bit of a harder
shader. If you act like you should go
look up like how to make a proper bloom
shader. I draw what I want with bloom.
So, but the thing is bloom is a
post-processing
effect. The tricky thing about bloom,
right? So, this thing, right, this
shader only gets applied to the pixels
that are rendered by this. But with
bloom, you have to render like this halo
effect outside of uh the pixels that are
drawn by the line, right? You don't want
to render bloom on the line. You want to
render it like as a halo. Okay? So
that's why it's a post-processor effect.
And for post-processors, you can look
those up. Normally you apply those
like
here they have an
example. So they have these examples
here, right? Where they
apply they apply these shaders.
But the way that they apply them, right?
So they draw everything. They draw
it and then they again they do the
shader on top of everything that's
already been drawn because they draw it
to a buffer and then they draw the
buffer to the screen with a shader. It's
harder with Bloom because you only want
to apply stuff to the projectile layer,
right? But if you draw the projectiles,
um, if you draw the
projectiles in a separate layer and then
you add bloom to them, then you need to
know what the depth is of the
projectiles in case they're behind
stuff. So, it's a little tricky. Now,
the good news on this is bloom is like a
really, really common effect. So, you
can probably find a good tutorial on how
to do it. Um, I didn't get that far.
It's annoying because it's like it's a
really common effect and it's like
pretty damn important for bullets. Uh
unless you're going to fake bullets. You
could technically fake bloom by like
just having it baked into the model.
That might be easier if you want to
like, you know, get model bullets and
like figure out how to fake it into
there. You could do that as well. Um but
otherwise, yeah, it's like it's a whole
post-processor setup thing. That's the
tough part.
layers. Yeah, they do it in two separate
layers here, I guess.
I don't even think this is enough cuz
you do need to check
depth. So, I don't
know. I I think it like it's a bit more
complicated. Anything else I can help
you with?
I'll figure it out. Thanks. Yeah, it's a
little tricky.
So, the simple version, right, is you
just draw the projectiles to a separate
texture and then you combine them. But
like then you you still have to handle
occlusions. So, I think that what you do
technically is you keep like a Z layer,
right, of like what's actually on
top. You might not have to, to be fair,
now that I'm thinking about it, because
um it might be enough just to do like
the two separate layers thing because I
think that you already kind of get the Z
information by what you're
drawing. Uh, I don't know. Anyways, I
got to go do some stuff. I will see you
around. Best of luck, Captain. And uh
for the couple folks still
watching, all my stuff's on puffer.ai.
You want to help me out for free, star
the GitHub, join Discord if you want to
get involved. You can follow me on X for
more content.